the permanent vacation lifestyle
activism within the vegan movement it's
a big deal I've been talking about it
for years many of you people watching
this video now first discovered my
channel because of my critique of the
permanent vacation and lifestyle
activism many of my supporters on
patreon ah that's how you got to know me
it's a big issue it's an enduring issue
it hasn't disappeared it still matters
why does it matter why do people like
myself talk about it instead of just
ignoring it because let's face it the
majority of the time whether it's on a
big channel or a small channel we do
ignore it and you know what let's keep
it all the way real even on a human face
to face level me cooperating with and
interacting with people I do tend to
ignore it you guys know I I did one
podcast of Jason Posey know in some ways
Jason I've said this enough videos I
think Jason's you know in some ways he
was representing the worst aspect of
vacation lifestyle and he had he could
laugh about it with me you know I mean
you know he's a self-conscious enough
guy self-critical enough guy but I
didn't I didn't try to shut him down I
didn't I didn't refuse to talk to him I
didn't say no I'm I'm too good to hang
with you because I'm a critic of the
primitive occasional lifestyle I set it
aside okay let's see what we have in
common let's see if we can work on
because look guys if what you have in
common with somebody is that you want to
save the world save the animals promote
ecology the vegan diet etc that is
something so fundamental and so
important and so meaningful for two
people to have in common that you should
put aside those other things there's
other considerations you should put
aside you know the fact that maybe you
don't both feel that you filming
yourself at the beach is the most
effective form of activism but you
should be able to put it aside and
certainly with someone with like Han
yells so I did try to put aside those
differences I tried to I tried to be
friends with any up to to keep things
simple didn't work out
pretty sure Hanna hates my guts but now
that's alright I win some lose some what
it's the permanent vacation okay why is
it a problem why
do people like myself criticize this at
all as opposed to just ignoring it given
that there are so many videos and so
many channels devoted to this approach
to veganism that we have to be ignoring
we have to be nor on a daily basis and
sometimes even when trying to make a
friend you set it aside and ignore it
also I think there were four headings
let's talk about just three of them in
this video number one is the impact on
the individual person's life which is no
joke right people who adopt this
lifestyle this paradigm some of them
drop out of university to do it some of
them drop out of high school to do it
and some of them encourage others to
drop out of university and drop out of
high school to do it okay it's a big
deal those are decisions that have
tremendous long-term consequences so one
pretty sympathetic conversation I had
you guys can look it up my channel was
posted relatively recently I had this
conversation with a young woman in
Chiangmai who dropped out of high school
and joined the circus she dropped out of
high school to go and live in Chiang Mai
and live that high fruit rot Oh for
lifestyle for the sake of her health and
also I think coz of the philosophy the
social philosophy of what was what was
attached to that she's not the most
extreme example but she she lost faith
in that project and she had that injury
with me so her name is Leah pram Staller
and also that video discusses the fact
that she gained a ton of weight not
everyone does but she gained a ton of
weight eating so many males today so
look when I talk about this is point one
on my list here the impact on an
individual person's life it's not
trivial quitting your job is not trivial
dropping out of university is not
trivial dropping out of high school is
not trivial someone else dropped out of
high school not even college is tests
beg okay I guess I'll probably come back
to example if you haven't heard of her
test tes SBE GG test bag first name last
name many people have it when you if you
haven't heard of her and you go to her
channel you're probably gonna be shocked
by how many followers she's got how many
viewers she's got when I look at her
channel right now a no shade out of that
like several of the videos are just
showing pictures of food but one two
three four five six seven eight nine ten
seeing like 10 images of her where she
is wearing either white underwear or a
white bikini in a white bikini in the
shower in a white bikini getting out of
the swimming pool
something I can't tell if it's a bikini
or benning's you know and others bathing
suit of different colors and workout
clothes very revealing test bag dropped
at a high school to play that game okay
and some people would say she's very
successful
you know she some of these videos have
50,000 viewers etc etc choice is still
not trivial it's still significant it's
still incredibly meaningful short term
in long term and you got to think of
what if she was your sister what if she
was your cousin what if she was your
daughter right um
I'm digressing I'm digressing to my main
point here but you know um I have a
million brothers and sisters I have one
child I'm divorced but I do have a
daughter I do think about these things
when I say impact individual person's
life I'm not joking I'm not being
cynical it's not just a ploy to get
views like I want to see something
outrageous about test bag and also it's
interesting some people misinterpret
what I'm saying 180 degrees here like
when I raise this as if I'm saying
physical beauty is the only thing that
matters if you know someone who is a
brilliant talented hard-working musician
and they have a contract with a
recording company still they have to
think about what they're doing long term
next 50 years their life of musicians
the majority who have a contract who
record an album who have a contract and
an album the majority of them they'll
have a career that only lasts two or
three years the majority of successful
musicians the majority of signing
musicians the majority of musicians who
get a song on the radio this is a
considerable level of success they don't
have a 20-year career they maybe have a
two-year career right and we're already
dealing with a tiny tiny minority of
women who sign contracts with a modeling
firm a tiny minority have a successful
career almost nobody has a 20-year
career right you could have been
modeling you can have a success over the
last two years so again whether you're
talking about recording music or
modeling you talk to someone who's a
bureaucrat one of those ages
agency someone who's an agent or a
manager and asked them can you calculate
what percentage of people who are signed
what percentage of people who sign a
contract have a successful career and
then what percentage of Everclear the
last more than two years it's a tiny
tiny percentage right now I don't know
why some people hear this kind of thing
I'm expressing concern expressed concern
for the individual people I'm expressing
concern for the future of the movement
veganism right my point is not you're
too ugly to be a model or you're not
talented enough to be Missouri it's not
my point my point is dropping at a high
school or dropping out of university to
become a musician or to become a model
is a really bad choice
even if you're extremely talented as a
musician even if you're extremely
gorgeous as a model even if you have
signed a contract as a musician or as a
model right among the most successful
people in those fields the most
successful still the majority of only
got two or three years in the game and
them what right so coming back to hennya
I mean look for some people for a tiny
minority of people YouTube social media
goes from being a hobby to being a
profession to being to paying your bills
early it might be your career for a lot
of those people after a couple of years
it goes back from being your career to
being your hobby
so we've seen haenyeo rise and fall
terms of the number of reviewers she
used to get more than 30,000 views per
video
I now see her getting only 6,000 views
per video and I've seen her in her
videos directly talking about her
anxiety that her income from YouTube has
fallen not that surprising how long do
you think it was gonna last even for
people who sing and who sing the hell
out of a song we'll have a hit song who
have a top-ten song a lot of people are
one-hit wonders a lot of people have a
career as recording artists the only
lasts for one year so if you do what we
do here on YouTube here on social you
just talk about your life do you really
think you can achieve that kind of peak
Fame for 20 years for your career in the
whole world maybe a couple of people do
it I mean I don't even know if 20 years
have we really had this kind of social
media for 20 years I know if we can have
an example of that but again Kenya Kenya
may be the single most successful
YouTube personality and veganism
she may be like if you make a top-ten
list I think she's on there for the last
decade I think she is one of the most
successful people but success is
fleeting and again success is fleeting
even if you sign the contract as a model
or as a musician and us we people people
like test bag they ain't got no contract
they ain't got no modeling agency right
now again I have asked the question with
people like Nina and Aranda I've asked
the question whether or not they could
is also worth asking as a thought
experiment and Randa really could be
successful as musicians or as models and
my opinion on them is no my opinion
doesn't matter the reality is they have
not succeeded the reality is they're 23
years old they're not teenagers they're
adults and their significant voices in
veganism and I want to criticize them
one because I think their content is
garbage I think they're idiots and
they're a bad influence on the movement
but also fundamentally you know guys
they did an advertisement for Taco Bell
which raises ethical sure they're
reasons to talk about what they're doing
now again some people got this 180
degrees the wrong way around and their
understanding of the point I've just
made to you was being good looking is
really important well if you're signing
a modeling contract it probably is but
that's not actually my point here people
I think I've just explained to you
clearly enough that I mean we're now
into an era of self-made celebrity
self-made stardom right it doesn't
matter whether or not test bag is
good-looking enough to sign a modeling
contract even if she did I would still
express this kind of concern you know on
a human individual level what about your
long-term future what about two or three
years from now even someone as
successful as hennya what about your
long-term future what about your future
two or three years from now right
whether you make a comparison to
modeling or music or anything else fame
is fleeting even at the top and don't
kid yourself we're talking about micro
Fame within the vegan demi-monde well
way down on the bottom we're talking
about people making $500 a month out of
YouTube and I know I know you may feel
famous if you're a young kid and you're
in high school or you're struggling with
university you make those five hundred
dollars a month you feel lit you think I
can do this you think I can grow the
I can make it go from 500 to 5,000 I can
start paying my read this can be my
career that's I understand the
excitement understand the enthusiasm
it's it's not my role to gas you up kid
it's my role to say to you think about
10 years in the future think about 20
years to think about long-term future
and looks 0.2 I look like point 1 here
is the impact on your life as an
individual what like honestly where do
you think we're gonna be 10 years from
now do you think Kenya is gonna look
back and say this had a really positive
back to know I think probably a lot of
people I've seen so many people drop out
and quit the game already delicious
journey already dropped out quit the
game I've just saw a comment from her
from years ago you know reminded me of
her existence and I go and look at her
Channel hasn't been updated for months
tons of people quit the game from all
levels they're people who are strictly
political there are people who are
strictly bikini models people from all
different walks of life who get involved
play this game for a while and quit how
do you think they look back on it now me
I'm in this super long term right now
I've got a court case with durianrider
so what we've had almost 6 months of
litigation I don't know Wendell it may
be it's only been four months litigation
feels at the core cases been going on
forever
short term it's a drag but I'm thinking
where does this put me ten years from
now I want to be I'm on a roll heavy in
the vegan movement to like the day I die
I want to be here when I'm 65 and want
you guys to all look back on this and
laugh
hope we can laugh together I hope you
guys still know me when I'm 65 and when
you watch youtube videos by pressing a
button on your watch whatever state this
technology it's evolved to by then right
[Music]
so you know my point is here not to
condemn the whole enterprise but sure
the stakes are high people are I mean
there was Joe vegan he admitted back in
the day back when he was a true believer
in during Ryder Philly so before Jovian
got famous here on YouTube he got his
job he quit his job to go to Thailand
and join the circus just to go in
worship during Ryder and freely just to
go attend the the fruit festival there
again I interviewed that other young
woman who dropped out of high school to
do it people are making those kinds of
decisions that have a deep impact on
their life and they look jumping back
back to my main point here this is all
my main point it's one long main point
people I think it was two years ago that
I sent an email to happy healthy
ninety-six whose real name is Stephanie
you I sent an email to Stephanie you
because Stephanie you was at that moment
making the decision to drop at a
university and she had a video about it
on YouTube she's saying well you know
I'm gonna drop at a university so that
she can be happy and healthy come to
find out this week I found out she ain't
happy
she ain't healthy she's basically at a
public breakdown that her whole [ __ ]
life on social media is a lie her life
based on projecting this image of a
happy healthy vegan lifestyle she ain't
happy she ain't healthy she dropped out
of university for what she dropped out
of university to do a bunch of Joe jobs
in Australia and possibly Thailand I
never heard of her having a job in
Thailand I assumed she was spending her
parents money during that time no shade
but I've never seen anything from her
explaining how she earns money but she
has said to me that she had some kind of
low-level job so she I don't know like I
don't know if she worked in a
convenience store or what I do not know
when all you got a high school diploma
and an airplane ticket to Australia I
don't know what kind of job you can get
you can't get a job in Thailand having
the legal as having the legal right to
work in Thailand is not easy I've been
through that I've done the paperwork to
have the legal right to work until I
have real life experience job experience
that stuff um so look uh you know Steph
you how do you
sefa knee you happy healthy ninety-six
how do you think she's gonna look back
on this role veganism and Sarah now
Jimmy on point for here this stuff is
not anodyne it's not harmless it has
real impacts for these people's
individuals and then it has real impacts
on others who imitate them who emulate
them if we were keeping it all the way
real who do you think influenced Steph
you to try that I'm sure on some level
even she's not aware about absolutely
certain Steph you of course she was
influenced by freely I think she was
influenced by Kenya Kenya mania I'm sure
she looked at Hania and Hania was there
at the peak of her fame and she thought
I can do this
maybe she thought I can do this better
probably true probably Steph you can do
a better job than Hanyu mania at that
same gig and again now today look at any
of them look at you can even look at
freely I mean frillies got enough money
to get by but all of the miserable
[ __ ] two lives you know so look at
the look at the outcomes now from Steph
you from freely but from Hanna even when
you know her fame comes and goes and now
what it's not a career and you were
still to start with the individuals
we're still not even talking about the
movement right social media is not an
alternative to having a real career it
can be an adjunct to having a real
career right but my next point is social
media is not an alternative to real
political activism it has to be an
adjunct to real political activism right
and people are promoting this it's
exactly 100 degrees opposite is the the
myth being spun here okay so look impact
on the movement in a sense all my videos
about this and since I feel like I've
already said enough and just eluding
forward to the fact that I'm not just
concerned I'm just talked about
concerned about the individual person
their career their life etc but also
I've got to be concerned about veganism
as such what is the impact on veganism
that so-called lifestyle activism has
and I've got to be impact I'm sorry I've
got to be concerned of my heading number
three is the impact that one individual
has on another the fact that maybe
Stephanie you was in a sense imitating
or emulating hennya
and it's very easy a course on the
internet for one thing is very easy to
only speak to people who agree with you
to speak with in an echo chamber where
no one's challenging your point of view
your opinions she was easily really
shocking look at any of Ted cars worst
videos and then look at the thumbs-up
thumbs-down ratio obviously people would
disagree with or people who would
challenge his lunacy
they just don't watch the videos they
ignore it which is natural but then you
get this self reinforcing pattern right
so people do get influenced by this and
the movement gets influenced and the
perception of the movement gets
influenced and as I said at the
beginning of this in many ways right now
we're
an ongoing debate or ongoing struggle
for the soul of veganism to decide the
future of the movement
I wrote a message this morning before I
went to class to a young vegan on
YouTube
her channel is called positively vegan
she is I believe 14 years old she is on
YouTube and she mentions that her
parents you know control her content I
assume they vet it or whatever you know
I don't know I don't know what the
process is but of course that's very
good I think if you're 14 years old your
parents should be involved you know or
some some guardian some older person
should be should be helping you manage
your social media if you're gonna use
social media that age so she's 14 years
old and she put up a video that somewhat
vaguely says that she is frustrated as
many young people are with school and
again the stakes are pretty high here
I've just mentioned a whole bunch of
examples of people actually dropped out
of high school or actually dropped out
of university to pursue this noxious mix
of social media glitz and you know
self-styled activism right I mean it's
what it is it's it's you know uh it's
putting on a bikini in lieu of a
revolution but you know as all the
pretensions of revolutionary left-wing
politics wrapped up in a bikini and sold
to you as part of a beach vacation can
you imagine why this is so popular can
you imagine why this is so influential
alright um in the video she doesn't
really spell out that she wants to get
involved that kind of lifestyle isn't
she somewhat vaguely says that she's
frustrated that she's trapped in school
studying things she's not interested in
and that really what she wants to doing
is traveling around the world and going
to these vegan meetups that she sees on
social media so I don't want to put
words into her mouth but my concern is
that sounds a lot like exactly what
Stephanie you said I think about two
years ago when she was first justifying
her decision to drop at a college and
when I wrote to her and I got a reply to
neither she nor I had very big YouTube
channels at that time saying look I
really think you're making the wrong
decision and this replied this
fourteen-year-old just gets depressing
some of the same concerns I think you're
gonna see exactly why I expressed this
and
all of these concerns concerns about the
individual because there's about
influence concerns about the movement
etc so as a high pause that's my
abbreviation of positively vegan as
their screen name so just say hi pause
um hi pause feel free to share this
message with your parents
maybe they'll read it anyway like I know
maybe we're parents actually you know
login and and read the comments but I do
open by saying look I'm happy if this if
this message reaches her parents I'm
just as happy as if it reaches her
because it serves the same purpose feel
free to share this message with your
parents maybe they'll read it anyway the
reality is that the road to making a
difference in veganism or any political
movement is not via social media maybe
your parents could help you find
examples of people who have actually had
influential careers linked to ecology
and animal rights or veganism sensu
stricto they have very little
resemblance to the people you allude to
seeing on the song social media the
people whom you'd like to emulate ok so
just pause there this is so true but
very very few people will see it it's
not easy to find there are examples of
people who actually have careers whether
as lawyers or advocates some kind of
political career involved with animal
rights ecology would have you some of
them have a stutter some of them have a
poor stage presence some of them would
never have a youtube channel just for
that reason like you know they can't
speak in a confident way on camera some
of them are fat some of them are ugly
plenty of the poor is nothing wrong with
that yo ugly vegans represent you know
um some of them are shy some of them
come out of a an academic background
some of them of no academic banker you
can find examples people had careers of
that kind that are really influential
and successful who actually didn't have
any formal education related maybe they
were a carpenter or something for it is
interesting but it's not easy to find I
mean that's what I say maybe her parents
could show her some examples of what
people like who have a career linked to
this form of activism because again one
thing I'm emphasizing is the difference
between short term fame and a career
although your video doesn't really
explain to me what your vision of your
own future might be and I don't want to
assume for example that you think you
can emulate Hannya mania but perhaps it
is some specific role model of this kind
that you have in mind you just briefly
say that you want to travel around the
world going to meetups but the reality
is that when you attend these meetups
you'll have nothing to offer
by contrast a medical doctor or a lawyer
might have a lot to offer you can have
expertise in a totally unrelated field
and still be respected in the movement
you can also just do honest work that
earns the respect of your peers in
almost any field but respect is earned
and the bottom line is that someone who
is a doctor or a linguist or a
successful small business owner is in a
massively advantageous position relative
to a teenager on social media okay
so again look the movement is the
movement is the movement and some of you
guys had this experience you show up to
a meet-up of vegan activists of people
aspiring to do vegan activism aspiring
to organize something to make something
happen if you show up and you just say
hey I'm not from around here I don't
live here out of any connections local
government or of any local knowledge
what's going on but I have pretty I have
pretty pictures of myself on Instagram
I'm a young attractive person on social
media people may be nice to you but it's
really a dead end you really have
nothing to offer the movement whether
you're going to meet up in London
England or in Athens Greece or in
Thailand you say yeah I just got off the
plane I'm living this lifestyle like
hanger mania where I just fly around the
world I don't put down any roots I don't
get any involvement with City Hall or
Parliament's or with a political
foundation I just get off the airplane
and then I come to this meetup and I eat
strawberries with you guys or I drink
mango smoothies with you guys and then I
go in a very real sense you have nothing
to offer yes people will be nice to you
I mean like you know people will chat
with you maybe they'll go out and dance
with you maybe they'll go out partying
with you
okay but in terms of the movement
somebody doing that is that such a steep
disadvantage to someone shows up and
says yeah I'm a medical doctor I'm a
vegan and I'm a medical doctor and now
if the medical doctor just got off the
airplane okay yes I'm his vanity I'm a
medical doctor and for years I've been
involved with lobbying City Hall I've
been involved with lobbying the school
board for education because you know
I've been objected the school board
keeps teaching kids that eating chicken
eggs is good for their health I'm a
medical doctor I have five years
experience taking the fight to the
school board trying to get the standards
changed in public education so we
stopped teaching kids lies about you
know the conditions animals live in the
health value nutritional value of eggs
dairy etcetera wow that guy has a lot on
that guy or that woman could be a female
doctor or whatever Wow so yeah it's a
meet up and what you see on social media
we see on YouTube may give you the sense
that all you need to do is buy an
airplane ticket and go to that meet up
and things are so for you and things
improve for the movement and wonderful
things happen and it's just not true
when you show up that meet up in a sense
you have to make an argument explaining
why you have anything to offer to the
movement if you have a lot to offer you
can take on a leadership role if you
have a little bit to offer
maybe you fit in somewhere in between
maybe what you have to offer is just
time by the way because a medical doctor
will not have a lot of free time that
medical doctor may want younger people
to volunteer to help him with that stuff
because he's so busy running his medical
practice blah blah blah sure sometimes
the puzzle pieces can fit together and
the whole is much better so the whole is
much bigger than each of the pieces
individually no doubt that's part of the
beauty of organizing political activism
okay but the movement is the movement is
the movement and you show up in the
Meetup and you have nothing to offer but
a pretty face and Instagram profile with
10,000 followers you got nothing to
offer
even though plenty of people will be
flattering towards you I mean the main
thing I see happening at those meetups
some of which you can see on camera you
know like on YouTube and some of which
you know you see in real life
a bunch of burnt-out Loser hippies
making excuses for each other for why
they have no ambition why they have no
accomplishments why they've wasted the
last five years of their lives sometimes
the last 15 years of their lives just
trying to stoke up each other's egos
right there's a lot of that going on
actually that was one things I warned
Stephanie you about I said to Stephanie
you look one of the problems is with
your plan because you didn't just drop
out of university she dropped out of
university to join the circus over in
Thailand I said look you know and this
is this raw raw a fruitarian righto for
demi-monde and Thailand said look one of
the problems is you're going to a
community where nobody is gonna
challenge you on these decisions you
made cause she doesn't made a terrible
decision and I hope she's smart enough
to regret now I hope she is but you know
at least she at least she's still young
enough to read it maybe she can still go
back to school maybe she can still have
a real career or something but the
problem is you're gonna go into this
demi-monde
into this small circle of people who are
in the tiny minority of people who are
gonna reinforce all of your delusions of
grandeur let me let me I didn't stutter
but let me restate that case you
couldn't hear me clearly you're moving
into a demi-monde of people who are
going to reinforce your delusions of
grandeur now that can happen just on the
internet where people stay at their own
desk
tons of people broadcasting they get a
little social circle of people who do
nothing but flatter them nothing would
praise them nothing but reinforce their
sense that what they're doing is right
and good and effective effective as
effective activism and you know in a
sense the underlying tragedy their lives
can get worse and worse and worse until
it hits a breaking point I think that's
just what happened with Stephanie you
she kept deal with in the name of her
channel is happy healthy 96 how long do
you maintain that illusion that
everything's fine that everything's
great until you hit a breaking point and
you say hey this is a disaster hey I'm
checking into the hospital hey actually
my health is terrible actually I'm not
happy with my life
right now me I keep it all the way real
you guys know all the time how miserable
I you know what's up in my life good bad
indifferent right but most these people
are not are not playing by those rules
and I can even say that of Hannya
handiest any other
middle she's pretty honest with Hania
she get a little bit of an illusion that
things are fine and then periodically
she gives you a video where she's really
letting you know once she's had a lot of
health problems that she's not healthy
that she's not healthy and that she's
not happy that she has a lot of things
that are that are wrong in her life but
now when that brief period of fame fades
and the money starts to dry up from
YouTube you got to think about the
difference between micro Fame and a
lifelong career because my commitment to
veganism is lifelong what I can actually
do comes and goes right but I'm thinking
long term and if there's one thing in
contrast to Ted Carr encounters to all
the other people encouraging you to be
indulgent and short time thinking if
there's one thing I want delivered you I
want people to think long term whether
I'm talking to this fourteen-year-old
whether I'm talking to some of my fans
who are 55 years old we all got to think
long term right okay so okay respect is
earned the bottom line is someone who is
a doctor or a linguist or even a
successful small business owner is
massively advantageous relative to a
teenager in social media I guess she
just mentioned a small business owner
what if somebody owns a vegan restaurant
what if someone owns a vegan food truck
what if someone owns a vegan pancakes
and a vegan hotdog stand any that's I
mean I always say the food services it's
kind of the most ubiquitous and most
easily ignored form of vegan activism
obviously you're doing something that
gives you a basis to really you know
engage in real activism where you're
really valued in that community if you
can really form a vegan community maybe
it is a real community that you know
this kind of social media career does
not give you ever right it also gives
you roots gives you roots and a you know
in a real place in bricks-and-mortar
right okay the teenagers on social media
may be the easiest part of the movement
to see and thus the easiest thing for
you to emulate but they're generally a
bunch of losers I've been to those cafes
in Thailand and I've seen it for myself
period so actually I mean just a pause
honor that's a meaningful point the the
teenagers in bikinis of social media are
the easiest thing to see
easiest thing to emulate but again in
contrast to the medical doctor or the
small business owner or the restaurant
owner or any Emil again you can even go
to I'm not a big fan of what's going on
in academic animal-rights go to an
academic animal rights conference at a
university you're gonna see a whole
different side of things that's not
popping on Instagram but it's a lot
realer and a lot deeper and you're gonna
meet some people of decades and decades
of experience with the pursuit of social
change under this under this heading
right but you don't see you don't see
the guy washing dishes in the back of
the vegan restaurant do you if you're
starting a small restaurant you do your
own dishes man before you got enough
money to hire a dishwasher I think there
were a lot of people I think there are a
lot of people sincerely motivated to
save the planet save the animals all
that stuff who are tonight washing
dishes I think some people are listening
to this video on YouTube while they're
washing dishes in the back of their
small vegan restaurant but that's not
what you're gonna see on social media
what you're seeing is the glittering
facade of test bag high school dropouts
Stephanie you college dropout any amania
I don't even know hennya media's
educator I don't know if she went to
university I don't know that but Hannya
mania someone who has no career aside
from social media so do I think is gonna
have to look at getting a real job
pretty soon no shade I too have to look
at getting a real job pretty soon you
guys gonna see that on my channel you're
gonna see exactly how that changes my
life so the people who are making a real
difference the people who have 14 year
old who this letter was to a 14 year old
inner parent to help prepare entreated
the people who a 14 year old should
really learn from which really emulate
are the people who are not on camera in
their bikinis but they're not so easy to
find those positive examples right okay
those people are not successful I mean
those people who you will literally meet
in the cafe in Chiang Mai Thailand you
know what I'm talking about some of you
know some of you don't know but anyway
those people are not successful and they
do not present a career path for you
personally nor a viable future for the
movement in general
they're a bunch of losers helping each
other in making excuses for their own
lack of ambition harsh but you know I
mean the vision you have is not an
alternative to the long hard road of
ambition and accomplishment not even if
for example you want to become a local
police officer something that does not
require too many years of education but
would make you respect it in your own
community and in fact would give you a
sort of status or respect even within
the vegan movement plus again it's a
great example so young woman is 14 years
old if she becomes a police officer you
know especially would be a vegan female
police officer when she shows up at the
meet up when she starts to organize
vegan activism whatever it is lobbying
city hall lobbying the Education Board
or just supporting a new restaurant
trying to start up food services or
trying to get trying to get vegan meals
as an option for prisoners in jail or
hey let's make the whole prison vegan
actually if you became a police officer
you might have a really interesting path
head of you and you can still go on
vacation you can be a police officer and
once a year or twice a year you can fly
to Thailand I don't care go to meet up
in Thailand you know a whole different
footing then and people are gonna talk
to you differently people gonna listen
to you differently too
and you would really have something to
offer even a police officer so there's
not related to veganism anyway the way
being a medical doctor would be right um
when you show up at the meetups around
the world that you're imagining what do
you have to offer I say this as someone
who is aware that he has very little to
offer if I show up at a vegan event or
at a Green Party event etc I have to
make the case that my voice matters and
you will have to make the case also at
age 18 at age 28 or age 38 the struggle
never ends at the end of my message is
14 year old
social media is not an alternative to
having a real career social media is not
an alternative to real political
activism real organization etc it can be
an adjunct to it right and that's not
false humility when I say I've got
relatively little to offer right now I'm
still in court for my divorce if that
goes really well soon I may be spending
several months in the year with my
daughter and then all my time and energy
is gonna go into playing with my
daughter right keep me real I may still
be able to come on YouTube but like my
capacity to be involved with vegan
activism sorry limited if I'm spending
more time with my daughter I'm spending
less time thinking about vegan activism
I've got a full-time job coming up you
guys gonna to see all my life changes
when I start that and you know the type
of activism I can do you know partly
because of my connection to my daughter
I wrote a children's story book I wrote
it in both English and Chinese it's a
story book about veganism or promoting a
vegan agenda but it's for children it's
Privett presenting the core concepts of
veganism in a way children can relate to
I wrote it in Chinese I translated the
Chinese in English other people have
already translated it into Russian
German and Swedish so there may be a
move on to translate and even more
languages I'd love to get that story
book published at least in Chinese in
English with beautiful illustrations to
me that's a form of activism and it's
also a book I can show my own daughter
and can be meaningful in my own life it
can be meaningful in your life if you've
got kids - - all you guys are there
beautiful form of activism but it is
this small scale stuff that's I don't
have a lot to offer I can go to a
meet-up and meet other vegans and say
that back when I did the last time I
talked to people in the green party
email I just rolled up on them saying
look I have background in political
science there's a lot of useful advice I
can give you you want to talk to me I
didn't have I had no money I have no
time I was busy as hell back then I was
involved with First Nations politics so
crea jib way etc you know the native
peoples of Canada politics I couldn't uh
you know I really had so little off for
the Green Party but I did manage to
based mostly on my background my past
I managed to convince them yeah you know
what I got I got something important to
say
so look as a major footnote here this is
just a footnote but I want to say I have
many many videos on this channel
complaining very surly
sincerely complaining about how terrible
my own experience university is my
experience of higher education is not
positive my high school was terrible my
university was worse
my experience with higher education in
Canada I'm Canadian originally
absolutely terrible I think there are
many many good reasons to drop out of
university and I've been tempted by them
myself but to simplify slightly it's
very different to drop out of university
because you want to do something as
opposed to dropping out of university
because you want to do anything or to
drop out of university because you want
to do nothing and maybe nobody in your
life is gonna be as honest with you as
I've just been whether it was I was that
honest with Stephanie you when she made
the decision drop in University if she
talked to me I would be that honest with
test bag about her decision drop out of
high school I mean God my heart goes out
to her parents I don't know what the
[ __ ] her parents are thinking because I
mean you know your parents have got a
look at that same YouTube page with her
in her underwear and in a white bikini
and in the shower and stuff and think
what the hell did our daughter drop out
of high school for right like my kid
dropped out of high school and their
YouTube page was all respectable
academic lectures on veganism I stopped
happy if my kid drew up to the high
school and their YouTube pages old
recipe videos and cooking I still
wouldn't be happy I'd say this is a
disaster whether or not you're you know
exploiting your sexuality this way
whether or not it's about your body
being the way you earn your living but
something I've said before on this
channel and I'll say it again and you
know I'm saying this with sincere
concern for the individual people
involved as well as for the future of
the movement there's a difference
between becoming a stripper so you can
pay your way through college and
dropping out of college to become a
stripper
what these people are glorifying as
lifestyle activism is the permanent
vacation it's not using your beauty and
youth and vitality not using your talent
as a singer or what have you to progress
in your own education to progress
towards a career it's not like a
stripper paying her way through college
it really is equivalent to dropping out
of college in order to become a stripper
and I got to tell you at least strippers
make pretty good money what most of
these people are doing short term and
long term I think you're looking at a
disaster as I said whatever 30 minutes
ago now this video has been going on for
a while
please keep in mind even the most
talented people with an obvious
verifiable talent like playing music a
musician who has a contract a model who
has a contract those people can maybe
only be looking at a career lasting two
or three years so you should be
terrified if you don't have a contract
you don't have that kind of obvious
skill what eclair Michelle is another
one dropped out of school right
dropped out of school for what did you
do up to this did you drop at a school
to do something or did you drive a
school to do anything like whatever you
have to do survive or did you drop your
school for nothing if my kid dropped out
of school to join the army totally
different totally different from
dropping at a school to go to Chiang Mai
and hang around in a cafe with a bunch
of losers
and I know I know there are idiots we're
going to misrepresent what I've just
said as if what I'm saying is that
beauty is the only thing that matters if
this is a criticism of other vegans for
not being good-looking enough and it's a
funny irony because really the substance
of my advice what I'm saying is that the
opposite extreme um so look what I'm
gonna mention last year I do think
there's another important issue that
sometimes treated in a very shallow and
catty and left-wing way which is the
question of colonialism legacy of
colonialism
the issue I sometimes people say
cultural appropriation there's the
question of the the jarring contrast
between the permanent vacation happening
in Thailand Thailand where currently
there's a military dictatorship there
are all these extreme political problems
of course there's also you know poverty
the poor you will have with you always
as it says in the Bible you know there
are all kinds of serious social problems
right now in northern Myanmar we've got
a civil war at hot Civil War in case you
didn't know including aerial bombardment
real body counts real cities being
reduced to rhumble Oh sir pardon me
reduced to rubble
and Thailand is treated as if it is just
a blank canvas for these lazy white
Western tourists to project their
fantasies onto for them to live their
own life of short term self-indulgent
sin etc not even in the pursuit of a
career not even the pursuit of research
not even the pursuit of humanitarian
interests not even attempting to learn
the language why is it Thailand I think
things are different in a subtle but
profound way if instead of Thailand this
were happening in Jamaica right Jamaica
a country so utterly defined by the
history of colonialism and slavery in a
way that's so obvious why is Jamaica
populated by black people and not by the
indigenous people I mean the indigenous
people were driven I believe to the edge
of extinction I do not know if in
Jamaica it was a hundred percent
genocide I've studied that a couple of
the other islands history Jamaica not in
particular most of the Caribbean the
indigenous people were driven to the
edge of X of genna's extinction of
genocide in some places they're
completely wiped out right the
population of Jamaica through the
repopulation of Jamaica through slavery
the history of European colonialism it's
staring you in the face every day you're
aware of it there I mean I plenty of
tourists still enjoy going to do makeup
but I think the question is there why is
it Thailand instead of Jamaica Y's
talents in South Africa why is it
Thailand instead of Egypt even we can
ask why is it Thailand instead of
Malaysia Malaysia is just a Muslim
majority country the beaches are just as
beautiful the mangoes are just as good
you know it's not the climate here
Egypt also has beautiful peaches by the
way right somehow people are managed to
sleep
through social and political reality in
Thailand and I think that the
confrontation with the legacy of
colonial history etc would somehow be
more visceral would somehow be more
difficult to ignore if we were even
talking about Jamaica and I'm not joking
when I've suggested earlier that Jamaica
they have a meaningful connection to
vegetarianism the Rastafarians is a
vegetarian movement actually Jamaican
culture in many ways connects to
vegetarianism not quite veganism in in a
meaningful way it could be that in the
future Jamaica instead of Thailand
becomes a major vacation destination for
vegans becomes a place where vegans
organize their their conferences their
parties or what-have-you but if so let's
have curiosity and concern and ambition
and human decency to deal with the
reality of what Jamaica really is and I
would it would mean so much to me if any
of you people it would Ted Carr anyone
living in Chiangmai had concern and
curiosity and ambition and decency to
face up to what thailand really is or
even what chiang mai specifically really
is okay and yeah I've joked about it a
lot that my expectations are low my
standards are low but but yeah there
there is I think there is an onus on us
to live up to live up to that to exceed
that because we're supposedly this
morally pure political movement who are
looking around at all these meat eaters
saying why don't you live up to our
standards but the irony is we're making
a complete [ __ ] farce out of
ourselves with this permanent vacation
self-indulgent dead-ended mentally and
morally bankrupt [ __ ] of parading a
life of short-term sensual
self-indulgence in the midst of a
military dictatorship in the midst of
you know a coup d'etat taking over the
government in the midst of a civil war
in Southeast Asia
hey guys next year let's let's have
righto for let's have the vegan festival
in Syria let's have it in Egypt let's
have it in South Africa Savin Jamaica
first
Thailand means so much to me it's been
such a big part of my life I can still
speak Thai with a heavy lotion accent I
would love it for Thailand to be the
center of the future this movement be so
convenient for me personally right but
it's got to be the real Thailand it
can't be a fake Thailand it can't be a
fantasy of Thailand it can't be a
version of Thailand denuded of its whole
real cultural history and political
context too just to just be this blank
canvas for you know white Western
fantasies to be painted on to right and
frankly if we're honest about it through
this issue of colonialism etc I think
that's exactly why it's Thailand I think
people don't want to deal with the guilt
trip that they would have even these
idiots in South Africa or in Jamaica
it's only in Thailand that they can
sleep and stay asleep
to that extent of both social and
political reality outside of their
window I said a long time ago guys
wrapping this up that I wished that a
video I made would be the last video I
ever made it with durianrider and then
after that durianrider started this
fight with me and we ended up in court
and all this stuff is legal legal
proceedings litigation I could say I
hope this is the last video I make about
the primitive occasion but it's not how
I really feel I think I personally have
made tremendous progress on this issue I
think that we collectively on YouTube
there's been such an evolution in the
last two years things have come so far
so fast and I have played a role in that
even people who hate this channel really
responded to and really you know
reshaped they're engaging with these
issues because of my critique of the
permanent vacation and it also brought
people out who yeah look I say that
actual phrase permanent vacation I
basically introduced into this discourse
the same way a bunch of my little
catchphrases like you know digital
demi-monde have have caught on and
become currency even among people who
don't watch this channel even people who
hate this channel right I don't hope
this is the last time I discuss these
issues I hope that one year from now
we've made just as much progress as I
know that we made in the last year we
made a ton of progress and it's partly
because of me it's probably because of a
thousand other people not that many
people maybe it's use one thousand
people you know it's not a hollow boast
for me to say we can do better I've seen
it I've seen people respond to these
problems being pointing out to them by
trying to do better and by actually
doing better the beautiful thing about
veganism being stuck in its current
nascent stage of just getting started of
not yet being a real movement and so on
is that we get to ask these questions
and come up with new answers before any
one is committed to a formally organized
political movement and that's a
beautiful thing but there was a time
when I first started talking with these
issues when people responded with
absolute hostility to my asking these
questions and when they responded by
accusing me of working for the CIA they
accused me of trying to destroy veganism
from the inside and they accused me of
being anti vegan because I dared to
question the role of lifestyle activism
we talked about in contrast to real
political activism and contrast to other
forms of activism in contrast even
running a restaurant told these are the
things because I questioned the really
negative outcomes for people of this
message of drop out of school and
somewhat some people day I've just
become a degenerate just to run away and
join the circus and live for your own
short-term self there was a really
strong voice of opposition a couple
years ago
saying no no no the only way to promote
veganism is to show our own happiness to
show how happy and healthy we are it was
like happy healthy 96 is to make a great
display of how happy those who are and
it's gonna attract people whose own and
today across the board people respond to
these same criticisms by saying well you
know what that's a really good question
maybe there's more than one answer but
across the board I think you see people
trying to come up with new and
meaningful and working answers
bad news is look guys for some of these
people it's too late you can go back and
watch that video I did with Lia pram
solar so she's gonna finish high school
now she had to go back to school she's
gonna finish high school in her mid-20s
some of these people who dropped out of
university will never get the chance to
go back to university some of these
people whether it's on camera or off
camera are gonna end up mopping the
floor at Starbucks or taking other
really low-level jobs because they ran
away to live this social media dream and
then sooner or later they had to wake up
to the [ __ ] social media nightmare
the temptation of that little bit of
Fame that little bit of money that that
I think that specific temptation is not
one that any other social movement has
really had to deal with before yes I
think if you were a Christian preacher
in the 1960s as part of the civil rights
movement there was money there was fame
there was sex a lot of those guys cut
Tron into it can read a lot of accounts
that I'm sure some of those elements of
human nature didn't change but I think
it is true that we are dealing with now
at this early stage of veganism
temptations that are so great
temptations that are out of all
proportion to the vitality and viability
and power influence of the movement
itself you guys celebrate when our
scandals get covered in the newspapers
you know vegan scandals like freely
breaks up with her boyfriend or Jerry
and writers threats give me okay
you want to actually think about the
ratio of coverage of the scandals to the
coverage of positive accomplishments
we've got and what do you think the
influence is what do you think the
knock-on is effect that is for the
people who are coming into the game now
I've been in the game just long enough
to see people get brokenhearted and drop
out I got a real short message from raw
excess I've had raw access on my channel
before you've seen him he's a black guys
african-american I've seen him making
fun of me who he pretends to be me and
he tries to imitate my voice an accent
pretty funny but I said to him why did
you delete your channel gave me a very
short answer he said I lost faith in the
community the deccan community I said to
a man I'm Way past you I'm Way past you
on that when I started this channel I'd
lost faith nakum you my first message
out the gate was there is no community
get over it for me that was step one for
him and maybe the final step maybe he'll
reconsider and come back right on a
human level I think this stuff has a
profoundly corrosive and demoralizing
influence and there are some people like
me who will say fine makes me stronger
I'm still in it for life I still see a
future for veganism in this world I
still see this as such a meaningful and
such an important message even though
I've been through this blah blah blah um
I think there's a silent majority I
think there's a much much larger number
of people who are responding this and
going off in another direction there's
just a huge number of people who are
looking at the teenagers who drop out of
high school and they don't comment and
they don't complain and they don't
engage in this debate they just go in
another direction so there's an
opportunity cost here that we can't even
measure
and invisibly that's that that's the
single biggest negative impact from this
game we're playing on social media right
now do you think I can go a whole year
without making another video on
permanent vacation let's try to be six
months I hope we all make a lot of
progress but then guys I hope you've all
made a lot of progress the next time I
got approached these issues because like
I said I feel like we made a ton of
progress since the last time I broached
them hit me up